>> Kadi Kraman: And finally, we need to
store our plants in our existing storage,
so the same way that we did
with the onboarding state.
And we want to display all the existing
plants in a list on the homepage.
So, I could use the same store, but
I think it's nice to keep
these separated if possible.
So we'll create a new zustand store and
we want to be able to see a list of
plants, so we want an array of plants.
We want to water a plant, so
watering is going to be a time stamp, so
we'll say a last watered at time stamp.
And you want to be able to
remove a plant from our list.
So let's go,
>> Kadi Kraman: To our storage.
So we store, and let's create
a New File called plantsStore.
>> Kadi Kraman: So this is quite a bit of
code and again I'm not going to live code
it, so let's copy this file across and
let's look through what it does.
So I've created a PlantType here, so
each plant is going to have a unique id,
it's gonna have a name,
it's gonna have a wateringFrequency
in days, which is a number.
And then optionally
a lastWateredAtTimestamp,
which will be a number.
So it's optional because there will
be an initial state where it's never
been watered or planned.
And in our zustand state,
we're going to have our array of plants,
which will be an array of these plant
types, which will be empty or have many.
We have our function to add a plant,
which will take the values from this form,
so the name and
the watering frequency in days.
Then we have a function to
remove a plant by plantId and
also water a plant by plantId which
will set this lastwateredAtTimestamp.
I've also done something
a little bit cheeky here.
So in real world applications
if you need unique Ids
you could use a library so
nano id or native uuid.
But in this case, I didn't want to
install a library, and I don't need
these Ids to be globally unique, I just
need these to be unique in my phone.
So I added a little functionality here for
managing the Ids in state.
So this is just telling me
what the next Id I can use is.
And every time I add a plant,
I increment it.
So in this addPlant function I
just return the existing state,
then I'll increment the next Id.
And in the plants array I'll add
the new plant at the top of the list.
>> Kadi Kraman: For the removePlant,
we return the state and
then just filter out the plant
by Id that was passed in.
And then for waterPlant we're going
to just map over the plant's array.
And then if the plant is the one that
we're watering we're going to set the last
watered timestamp to the current time.
And lastly, same as we did
with our onboarding storage,
I'm going to store it in AsyncStorage.
But notice that the name of
our storage key is different.
So this is now the plants store.
So now we would like to
hook up creating plants.
So in our app.new, so the new screen.
>> Kadi Kraman: Our placeholder
here was a console.log.
So after it's passed
all these validations,
it will get to adding a plant.
So let's do at plant, and this will be
the usePlantStore from the stand.
And we'll pick the state,
we'll pick the addPlant
function from our plant store.
>> Kadi Kraman: And here, we've already
checked that this days is a number.
So, we can safely cast it into a number.
So we'll do addPlant(name, Number (days)).
>> Kadi Kraman: And once we've added it,
let's also close the model.
So we'll use router, for
that, the router hooks.
So let's do const router = useRouter.
>> Kadi Kraman: And
down here we want to do router.navigate.
And we'll just navigate
back to the index page.
>> Kadi Kraman: So now let's do,
>> Kadi Kraman: Casper The Cactus.
>> Kadi Kraman: I don't know how often you
watch your cactus three/four days, okay?
So currently I've submitted this form,
but nothing is showing up because
we haven't implemented our list
on plants yet, so let's do that.
Open your theme file,
cuz we need to add a couple more colors.
Let's do a colorBlack, which is
just #000, and colorGrey.
>> Kadi Kraman: So, I'm actually
using just this grey color, but
you can also write out the hex code,
which is #808080.
>> Kadi Kraman: So, in our plant store,
let's export the PlantType.
So we could use it in our home screen.
And for the plant card,
let me just show you what we're building,
maybe this will help.
So this is what we're building.
So we're building a list of plants.
So we want this little plant card, and
we'll create a separate component for
that.
So in your components,
let's create a PlantCard,
>> Kadi Kraman: .tsx.
And for this,
we can just copy this file again.
>> Kadi Kraman: There we go.
So one thing that I've added here that
I've not implemented yet is that for
this plant card, we want to use the same
PlantlyImage as we did in our home
screen and in the add plant model.
But we kind of wanted to be smaller
because if every one of these were close
to the size of the screen
that wouldn't work.
So because we're using React we can
customize our PlantlyImage component
to optionally take in a size prop, so
you could define what size it wants to be.
So let's open the PlantlyImage.
>> Kadi Kraman: And let's do a type
Props and we can pass in a size which is
an optional hence the question mark,
it's an optional number.
>> Kadi Kraman: And here we'll
de-structure size from the Props and
for the image size we can
say that it will be size or,
if this is false or null or undefined,
then we'll go to our default.
And finally, in our index page,
we want to render this list of plants.
So let's go to tabs, index.
And now we do have an array
of items to map over.
So if we have an array of
items to map over to have
a full screen list,
then we always use a FlatList.
So let's do const plants and
get our plants from our zustand store.
This will be usePlantStore((state)
=> state.plants)).
So this hopefully,
let's do a console.log just to validate.
If I open my terminal.
>> Kadi Kraman: So I've created a plant
here, so I have an array of one.
>> Kadi Kraman: Let's add another plant.
Let's do,
>> Kadi Kraman: Laura The Lilly.
>> Kadi Kraman: I'm trying to remember
if Lilly is written with one l or two.
>> Kadi Kraman: Apparently both are valid.
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH] I think it's one.
>> Kadi Kraman: Okay,
it's one, I'm gonna with one.
And I go with seven, okay, great.
So we have two values here.
So the data is definitely getting through,
understand?
Let's render this in a FlatList.
So a flat list is a virtualized list,
whenever you want to map
over an array of items,
you should never use array.map in React
Native, you should always use a FlatList.
And now it's because it has optimized
handling if the amount of data
that you render is too big to be
anywhere near the viewable area.
So it actually,
if you're rendering like a thousand items,
it doesn't render all thousand,
it renders some amount of screens.
So let's return a FlatList.
>> Kadi Kraman: And we'll pass in our
data which will be the plants array.
>> Kadi Kraman: And renderItem.
So this will be the render function for
each plant and
it's a function and
you can destructure the item from it.
So if we do item, then that's where
we get the each individual plant and
we take this and
we render our newly created plantCard.
>> Kadi Kraman: And
we pass in the plant as the item,
>> Kadi Kraman: Okay?
So this is looking good,
you can do with some padding if
we were to match our design here.
So in our styles I can actually
use this container style.
So let's do style = styles.container.
And we'll keep the flex one and
the background color,
we don't need the align items.
We also want to add some padding there but
recall that you should never
add paddings or margins on the style
prop of the scroll elements.
You want to use a contentContainerStyle.
>> Kadi Kraman: This is
styles.contentContainer.
>> Kadi Kraman: And we'll do a padding 12.
And the reason you don't want to add
the padding 12 here is then when you have
enough items to overflow from the screen
the bottom of the screen will be cut off.
So that's why we're adding the padding
to the content container instead.
So it's nice to add like a little
list empty component as well, so
when we've not added any plants yet.
So with FlatList you have some
convenience components so
there is a ListEmpty, ListFooter,
ListHeader components.
So ListFooter and ListHeader will be
rendered at the top or bottom of the file.
And then the ListEmpty component
will be rendered automatically if
the data that you're passing in is empty.
So in this case, let's just use
our PlantlyButton with a title and
do "Add your first plant and onPress,
>> Kadi Kraman: We'll need to use router,
so const router UseRouter.
>> Kadi Kraman: And onPress, we will
do a router.navigate to our new screen.
>> Kadi Kraman: Okay, so this will
open the new plant model if our array
is empty and
we can render all of our plants otherwise.
So, one thing I want to draw your
attention to that I used in this
plantllCard that I've not spoken
about before, is a shadow.
So there's actually this
really useful website that is
great to use if you're looking to
create a shadow with React Native.
So these are all the shadow
props that you would use.
And kind of manually playing around
with it I find quite tedious, so
using this as a starting
point is really helpful.
But one thing that you should know
when it comes to shadows is that
these props only work on iOS,
and this only works on Android.
So when we talk about shadow,
we're actually only affecting iOS.
And on Android, the shadow effect
is achieved with the elevation.
So they actually look
similar to us UI wise.
So if I look at the examples screenshots
here, if I look at the screenshots here,
so we have Android on the left and
then iOS on the right.
So they actually look quite similar,
but they are using different props.
So if you're creating a bunch of shadow
and you have not used elevation at all,
then on Android, that will have no effect.